"ONLINE CRIME REPORTING SYSTEM"

Presently there is no online web application available to report crime online. In order to report any complains associ
ated with crime, people has to contact closest police station. People of the specific city are not aware of crime relate
d matters such as list of Most wanted criminals of their town, newest crime related news, missing persons of the area
etc..People must view News Chanels or Read News Paper for such offense related details. Thus we can say that pres
ent platform is manual and does not supply all the information from 1 source
Project Objective :
The Objective of Crime Reporting System is to develop a web based program using which people can report crime o
nline. It provides the facility of uploading images or videos of crime scenes to ensure that police may take action im
mediately. It also supplies the advice of missing persons, most wanted criminals and security tips for the awarness of
people.
Online Crime Reporting System is an internet based Project developed using PHP and MySQL. The aim of Online
Crime Reporting System will be to create a web based program using which people are able to report crime online. I
t gives the facility of uploading videos or images of crime scenes to ensure that authorities can take action immediat
ely.

Abstract of Crime Reporting

The capstone project entitled “Crime Reporting is a web and mobile based application which will facilitate the queri
es and reports of crimes in the locality. The said project is available and accessible to the general public wherein the
y are allowed to report an incident or crime using their mobile devices that are connected to the internet. On the othe
r end, the ICT department of the police station will verify first the validity of report before a response will be made.
Crime records will be archived for future reporting purposes.
Crime Reporting and Archiving System was designed and developed in PHP, MySQL. It wi
ll be implemented in the police station of every city, maintained by their ICT personnel.

Rapid Application Development was the software development life cycle model used in the said project. After all th
e steps were conducted, the researchers compiled the results of investigation and revised the necessary changes base
d on the recommendations of end-users and IT experts. Expectations and requirements of the end-users were met an
d therefore, the researchers recommend implementing and maintaining the project for the system provides a conveni
ent and secure way of reporting crimes and incidents in the locality.